so I was just being enlightened about
dr. Jude capper February and I guess
this is kind of the latest attempt to
revalorisé the dairy industry and they
are trying to come out as transparent
look I find it weird - I mean some of
the things meat eaters eat I have to
recognize historically have been crucial
to human survival
so now was I was talking with Melissa
the other day in terms of not just not
really human evolution but the history
of just the last 5,000 years the reason
why most cities are located where they
are is due to access to fish that
definitely includes the history of
Scotland and Eastern Canada by the way
fish was an almost infinite source of
protein for human beings in the last
5000 years now believe me sir I'm a
vegan in case you didn't know watching
this video I don't think it's morally
justifiable in the year 2008
to eat fish but I can recognize
historically the entire population of
Japan and Scotland and even Cambodia was
located where it was due to the
availability of fish you know Angkor Wat
in Cambodia it reached a peak population
of about 1 million people living in one
city now it was actually more like a
giant suburb they didn't have high rises
or skyscrapers they all lived in little
houses but still they got about a
million people in total how fish was
crucial to that yes also rice and
whatever they were living in a swamp
they're living in a tropical swamp with
a lot of fish protein sitting around so
I mean I can I can recognize that but
you know whenever we buy food almost the
first thing we look at even with the
enof vegan diet it's just the ratio the
ratio of fat to protein and there is no
justification for eating you know
camembert there's no justification for
eating cheddar you know now or ever you
know that the dairy products we sorry
not me cuz I'm vegan but we this is
something to eat there so obviously
poison you know what I mean like you
know there's a level on which I I can't
argue that you shouldn't eat fish in
terms of your health and this obvious
sense you know what I mean
I recognize you know and the stats that
show vegans are tremendously healthy
when you look at the epidemiology there
were pescetarians who are very healthy
also now believe me sir I'm not letting
him off easy there were serious health
problems caused by eating fish including
exposure to mercury I personally knew
one man who had destroyed his health
permanently by eating fish because he
got mercury toxicity believe is called
miyamoto syndrome but it may or may not
be but in mercury exposure to fish
destroyed his life and that's it
he might've horrible but he's not dead
he's in he's trapped in a kind of living
death due to this you know mercury
exposure yeah terrible permanent health
damage whoa so that's that is very scary
and very real but on a fundamental level
dairy products are just a blob of fat I
mean it's unbelievably unhealthy for you
and I you know I don't you know
there were of course there were a
million other reasons to not eat dairy
there are a million other reasons to be
vegan ethical and ecological and health
and everything else but you know I don't
get it
and look keeping it real I have
mentioned this before I was briefly
employed behind the cheese counter at a
Whole Foods Market
I remember mentioning that back when Joe
vegan was still vegan and he was on
YouTube because jovi gonna make a big
deal about how he worked in a grocery
store he was so poor and oppressed
compared to me I said hey I used to work
in a grocery store - I used to work at
that Whole Foods Market I would find
that I work the cheese counter and the
particular location I was at we did get
a lot of you know slender women coming
in asking me for advice on what kind of
cheese they should eat to lose weight or
remain slim and the advice I gave them
every time and they would often be
asking me this holding in their hands
so-called low-fat cheddar which is
really high in fat and every time what I
said to them which was very good advice
I said if that's the case the only
cheese you should eat is parmesan
because parmesan is very strong tasting
and you can grade it over over the food
you eat and I said what you need is to
do something like parmesan that's a very
very strong taste said you eat very
little of it because the only way the
only way to have low-fat cheese is to
not eat cheese or cheese as possible
which is what's something like you know
if using a trivial amount of parmesan
then the negative effect in your health
is better so this is obviously me you
know before I was vegan cheese counter
and I didn't know any of the detailed
stuff I know now about dairy products
and health impacts and so on but it's
just blindingly obvious in terms of the
protein to fat ratio which is what
you're eating why is this part of the
human diet at all why do human beings
eat ice cream and butter and cheese it's
really insane so sorry I'm keeping it
real let me know
something now actually and it's by the
Farmers Weekly and its form as weekly
themselves trying to debunk the myths
spread about dairy itself and there's
one about health and you may see if you
read it it's not even a minute because
they can see to it but I'm even with
their argument that they're trying to
steer to here's the myth taking carbs
from their mothers is harmful their
responses or Jude Kappas response is
activist groups are highly skilled at
creating content test messages which
resonate with consumers and suggestion
calves are forcibly removed from the cow
with the cow often cited as bellowing
for days afterwards he is a popular anti
berry message maternal ability is a
desirable trait in beef cows which often
card outside or unsupervised but has
been neglected to some degree in dairy
breeding programs not all cows are
interested in caring for the calf 24
hours of life obviously the dairy the
dairy farming industry is based on what
cows would prefer their preference yeah
you know these people have no sense of
fair play but I mean you know the weird
thing is so I used to live on the border
between Spain and France where the
debate about bullfighting was still
ongoing you know so region by region
they were having referenda they were
they were having ballots they were
voting on whether or not to ban
bullfighting forever and I knew other
other vegans there so what I lived in
Perpignan I think I knew all four vegans
who lived in Perpignan this is
right on the Catalan border between
France and Spain there were very very
few vegans there but some of the more
serious activists it just seemed
Valerius the arguments the debates being
had about bullfighting like well
torturing an animal to death in public
for human entertainment in yeah sir we
were just talking about a minute ago is
it okay to eat honey or oysters or
something that's a little bit more
understandable this is torture good
animal to death just for just for human
entertainment but you know on the other
hand as ridiculous as it may sound you
know what they do with those bowls it
has more of a sense of fair play then
you know what we do with with dairy cows
every day I mean it's you know it's
moral insanity I think most people are
shocked when they first learned that the
cows never even get to have sex you know
a cow never gets to have sex with a bull
they get a human hand shoved up their
anus in order to direct a needle that's
inserted in their vagina and that's
their whole life is living beneath the
steel sky inside a steel cage and and so
on so you know I mean it's it's insane
to say that somehow you know milk
production conditions are based on what
the cow desires or appreciates that the
cow would prefer that you murder and eat
its child rather than leave them
together I mean you know when the only
life you've known as a cow is living
inside a steel cage
I mean the whole frame of reference for
it is just insane and incoherent but
yeah the Spanish in terms in terms of
sense of fair play you know when they do
that stuff the Running of the Bulls they
accept that every year the Bulls are
gonna kill a few people you know the
Bulls will kill a few bullfighters kill
a few people in them in the streets as I
mean obviously like it's it's it's
laughable from a be in perspective the
debate surrounding bullfighting
but you know actually when you think
about it it's more morally acceptable
and more morally justifiable than what
goes on invisibly in the milk industry
every day yeah be the moral courtesy
it's just not consider history examples
right now I just it was an 80 year old
man he was shoving his whole arm
and then he fiddled with himself he
wasn't he wasn't punished for causing
the cow any harm it was it was charged
for public indecency no one permission
to touch our cows we see them as family
so these 150 counts you've probably done
the exact same thing because they were
literally about to milk them the host of
beef there are good returns available
the company which takes ours is a really
good route to market that is now totally
they also see that beef quality is as
good as any other breed so they're still
gonna get shot well you're too choosy
two responses one of which is quick and
one of which is more long and deep so I
we were living now or new apartment
brand-new apartment our new leery
carpeted apartment he's on Vancouver
Island so Vancouver Island is not
Vancouver it's an island next to
Vancouver on that whole island all
cattle all male or female are executed
by
rifle by gun they don't have any
slaughterhouses and economically it's
not viable to put them on a ferryboat
take them across to a slaughterhouse and
take them back again so I'm living
within the Western world the modern
world one of the few areas where there
are no slaughterhouses it's all
old-fashioned bullet to the head
execution so would be nice if we get a
car or currently we're pedestrian and
bus only we could drive out and probably
interview some of those guys who shoot
cows in the head probably film them
doing it talk to them about how they
they feel about it so we're still in the
18th century that way and there was a
time when the modern factory
slaughterhouse didn't exist but
Vancouver Island as far as I know is
still living in that era again for
purely economic reasons and you know I'm
not convinced though I don't know if
getting shot in the head is any better
or worse than being killed in a
slaughterhouse it's probably better at
least they get shot the head outdoors
you know like no it's ridiculous but
you've asked yourself would you rather
die by being shot in the head in a field
or blasphemy processing factory and
killed the way those guys are killed
I hate to tell you but shun people might
win I don't you know I don't make any
real ethical distinction between the
stainless steel slaughterhouse and dying
on the mud
unless you think bleeding to death on
steel is morally superior to bleeding to
death on grass and mud I don't I don't
see it that way so that's that's one
interesting thing and that is really an
opportunity for activism because I think
if we did get out and talk to those
people just like normal human beings I
think you know you know I mean I didn't
scream at them Meat Is Murder on
speciesism is their default brush you
know just talk to them about their lives
probably those be will be an interesting
insight you're honest for you for you in
Scotland I think this will be part of
your life inevitably because the
connection between India and England is
so strong but these discussions about
cow rights are on another level in India
because in India they believe in animal
rights for cows but only cows not bowls
not steers not the male of the species
only the female and not for water
buffalo for Buffalo's general I think
they have a couple species of Buffalo so
other bovines
that are all more or less identical the
cattle but they do not consider them
cattle they're not BOS indicus as a
species you know they have a different
shape of horn so you have a totally
surreal situation where people want to
believe that milk is good and morally
pure because that's what it says in the
Vedas that's what it says in classical
Hindu texts milk and butter or pure and
sacred and butter oil they think of as
the ultimate food but they want to
believe that the production of milk is
not exploiting the cows or it's not
harming the cows that want to leave cows
are sacred and then at the same time a
totally cavalier attitude towards
killing and even eating the male of the
species and the exploitation and killing
of these Buffalo species which make
buffalo milk cheese by the way they are
exploited for their their milk not just
their meat right adjacent to it so I
think any detached observer can look at
that and say this is not sustainable and
I don't mean ecologically sustainable I
mean like psychologically sustainable
it's not possible for more than 1
billion people in India to look at this
just sit back and look at it and it'll
be on YouTube you know that's the
reality it's not gonna be on mainstream
TV it's gonna be a billion people sooner
or later looking on YouTube but the
reality of where milk comes from and
look at the reality of here's what you
call a cow and here's what you call a
buffalo like talk about hashtag
speciesism you know most of you guys are
making arguments like what's the
difference between a pig and a dog
what's the difference treated Carol that
has horns shaped like this at a cow that
has horn shaped like that like their
kids did cow it a buffalo
this is speciesism gone amok you know
one is sacred and one's just a filthy
animal
you know apparently it seems to be
completely inevitable not out of
necessarily the strength of Hinduism but
out of the weakness of Hinduism and the
breakdown of Hinduism of the 21st
century of elev out of that mess of
what's left over a Findo ism of Buddhism
it seems to me inevitable that there's
going to be a huge impetus towards
veganism and
only against dairy specifically against
Terry this is just not sustainable
betrayin distinctions as justifications
so I'm not I'm not surprised it goes
extreme as that with this one with
anything like dogs if you look at
picking a dog they're really not that
different like Pixar essentially you
know dogs with who's obviously they have
a different kind of biology and diet but
when you look at their behavior very
similar there's not much obviously when
you people have them as pets you can see
both of them in the wild would also
attack and kill humans very gladly dogs
would also prefer to eat humans rather
than work for us and wild boars would do
yeah
so just as Melissa do you want to see
some more about the milk myths and
misconceptions now I think we could heap
scorn on this for hours
yeah I remember or so again this is
before I had a YouTube channel this is
pigs rather than cows but I had this
blog about veganism and I remember a hog
farmer replied to a post I had also
commented on a sign I don't think was my
post oh yeah oh yeah no I talked to
several I told you I talked I talked you
through that platforms you my father it
is I talk too much I truck yeah yeah
they're out there trying to get late to
ultimately most of the social media is
fueled by dinner
I mean it's fueled by wanting to have
sex with members of the opposite sex or
members of the same sex or both if
you're all hog farmer how do you meet
people you spend all your time in a
[ __ ] shed do they have a vegan
category a vegan farmers own can I click
on the vegan button and only date other
vegan firm that's what I'm looking for
vegan vegan male former chic sick
look looking to share an apartment above
a pig shed yes it's a hog shed but the
smell isn't too bad anyway there was a
hog farmer who replied and it was a
thought it was a photograph that a whole
bunch of vegans were commenting on that
just showed you know the mother cow
sorry sorry a mother
Sall female pig in a in a steel cage
that really didn't allow her to move at
all and then the piglets drinking from
her teats it was just an unbelievable
image of exploitation taken beyond any
taken to the nth degree what I want to
say and the hog farmer wrote back and
said like oh well you see this is the
sort of thing where activists really
have maked mislead you with these kinds
of photographs he said you know what's
really going on here is that you know
you're preventing the pig from hurting
itself or accidentally crushing her own
Palin's because that can happen you just
provided this kind of comment which in
no way refutes or challenges the moral
problem deacons are pointing out here I
think a lot of people run this photo are
not vegan they're just not morally
insane they can just look at this and
say something's really wrong with this
picture
you know sometimes really this isn't the
myth of happy need I bought into you
know I mean this is the picture on the
side of my box of animal crackers or
something you know what I mean this
isn't the life I thought these pigs had
before they were killed for our
entertainment you know anyway I just say
that that was weird to see that but I
mean what can I tell you
stupidity is real and you know I think I
mean one of the functions of
intelligence this actually comes back
even to Arthur Schopenhauer theory of
what is intelligence on what a stupidity
is discerning between what is salient
and what is irrelevant and some people
are so stupid that you can just present
them with a totally irrelevant fact like
Oh
like I don't know in the wild sometimes
female pigs will accidentally crush
their own children I guess that must be
true I mean it must happen once in a
while you know humans do that
accidentally too you know it's a problem
where's the way you sleep while you're
breastfeeding if you fall asleep
oppressed when you have to be careful
you don't
baby humans do it so I guess pigs do it
therefore steel sky concrete floor steel
cage millions of tons of pig flesh beer
all justified any contradiction if your
question dismissed my mind at ease you
know if you can't see the difference
between what's relevant and what's
irrelevant there you know what yeah it's
it's mind-blowing to me but stupidity is
real and as we were saying under under a
very different heading you know what an
hour ago or something we all have to
live in a society together we're not
gonna form a society that's only smart
people I can't even put together a vegan
activist group that's only smart vegans
we got plenty of idiots and then
veganism too you know we all gotta learn
to work together and cooperate and try
to make something positive as stupid as
as we may be individually or
collectively we gotta focus on doing the
best we can Terry we watched a video on
Deutsche Welle and it was about it was
not Pro vegan it was really about it was
Pro dairy farmer and I was talking about
how there are so many limits on the
probability of dairy now and how to make
money off of it they're selling yeah
well they have like like huge supplies
of powdered milk that they have to do
something with so they're sending it to
countries in Africa and it's just it's a
huge mess and I don't even think it's
the plant milk Center and fringing on
the dairy you know Jerry I think it's
really yeah yeah you know that's what I
appreciated about this whole thing is so
many vegans we're just assuming it was a
vegan thing because so many bigots are
young and of eat the young people on the
internet don't mean the living daylight
and that's exactly like one of the the
people who brought it to our attention
within the BDDs was ether logic he's
also known as Tim he and I had a big
when he was trying to explain jude
kepler and that's how i came to know it
and relentlessly we've been trying to
ask her simple questions there were no
no insults and transparency between the
vegans and the teri industry it's
showing a desperation i think there are
a lot of things like did you say
sometimes you ask what's acceptable as
soon as you ask what's optimal so a very
different moral problem from a
perspective is prostitution you know
I've lived in Thailand where there's a
lot of prostitution and I don't think
I'm ever gonna live in a society where
there is zero prostitution
you know how much prostitution should we
tolerate as a society that's very
difficult answer it really is sincerely
I think no matter where you are on the
political spectrum if you aren't being
in an insane idea log and there are
feminist ideologues and there were
Muslim ideologues and Catholic
ideologues you know the answer isn't
zero and the answer isn't 100 and it's
really hard to draw the line on that
about what's tolerable what's acceptable
and what's optimal but the the bizarre
thing when you're looking at something
like cheese or milk or the ecological
impact of the the you know the beef and
dairy industry you know setting aside
even the the ethical consideration if
you ask what is the optimal amount of
cholesterol in the human diet the answer
is zero what is the optimal amount of
cheese in the human diet not tolerable
optimal the optimal amount of cheese in
the human diet is zero what is the
optimal amount of cow blood and cow poo
and cow piss you want in this river the
River Thames let's say but any River the
optimal answer is zero and that is
completely attainable I don't think even
if one thing we could ever have a
society with zero prostitution it's
never gonna happen a society with zero
cow milk and zero
[ __ ] in the River Thames is completely
attainable all you have to do is you
know what you and I and all these other
vegans do every day so I'm within arm's
reach of a whole bunch of vegan food you
know to us it to us it comes natural at
this point we know we know how easy it
is and yes we also know how hard it is
in some ways we know the ways in which
is it's hard or challenging but you know
I do think it's much harder to make that
argument about something like fish or
lobsters that don't have the same
externalities in the same obvious health
health damage but I've said this of you
th use the example leather shoes all the
time it's like you know a contrast you
know leather shoes to scientific
research that in both torturing animals
that again I don't think we can live in
a society with zero scientific research
that tortures animals zero vivisection I
don't think it's horrifying but I don't
think zero is attainable I think that's
another difficult question of how much
are we gonna tolerate where are we gonna
draw the line etc you know when is
scientific research so important that
you get to torture rats to death I think
that's really worth answering even
though I accept we have to kill rats
when there's an infestation you know
there are other situations in which we
have to kill rats I think that's still
an important question to ask and to have
government guidelines for an England you
a very anyway you have a government
guidelines whether or not they're good
you do have that stuff written out and
in law but in some countries it's very
much up in the air it's very much an
undetermined you know but unlike you
know medical research why should we
tolerate any leather shoes tolerance is
irrelevant why should we tolerate any
cheese tolerance is irrelevant the
optimal amount is zero and none of us
have to sacrifice or suffer to achieve
that that target so anyway sorry but you
know people talk about being pragmatic
within veganism I think part of being
pragmatic is also recognizing the
situations where you don't have to
compromise all kinds of things we have
to compromise on but this is not
actually
being interviewed and she's trying to
promote positive sides of Derry and the
two examples it may have been three the
only Co example she could come up with
but it cows themselves and cheese
sandwiches and we can still appreciate
cows any bovine creature is to do
humanitarian work and I saw a completely
humorless argument about how dairy fat
was more effective in causing humans to
gain body weight humans to get get fat
and that therefore humanitarian work we
should be prioritizing it was I think
canned butter there's this type of
butter that doesn't need refrigeration I
don't think anyone in the Western world
is capable of eating it's really
horrible
it's really awful processed products but
it's like well yes if your definition of
something being healthy is in a refugee
camp
it makes people get fatter or quicker
why should they Springs why eat broccoli
if your objective is to gain as much but
yeah once in a while you read these
things that are that are really sincere
that are making that kind of argument as
I say I've read it let a strange life so
I've actually read some arguments like
that which are about refugee camps you
know they're about really weird
situations but obviously most of the
people engaged in these debates are not
being sincere sometimes they're making
money out of the industry but sometimes
it's also just not not being honest with
yourself and and I don't know I mean I'm
lucky in some ways I've led a really
wonderful life in some ways my life has
been on indescribable horrible but you
know I at least Abed the time to really
think all these things through and a lot
of people work a 9 to 5 job or work 10
and 12 hours a day and you know they get
to it pretty yeah right
living in that harried way that
unexamined life they get to age 45 and
they're asking themselves questions for
the first time that my daughter was
asking me at age four and a half my
daughter was asking me a lot of
questions about about veganism you know
and she was emotionally invested too we
weren't building up for you could see it
was a big deal to her emotionally
already at age four and a half you know
so yeah I do like that about about
veganism I've said I've said to you at
some point in this chemical conversation
once in the last year but you know um so
my parents were communists and being
raised communists I was really aware
this was an ideology so simple that it
was really like children could
completely understand that children
could appreciate you know killing all
the rich people that's a really simple
message that like a six-year-old and an
eight-year-old can really understand
this is my family throwing up you know
the workers will rise up and kill all
the rich got it and you as a kid in
school you could look around your
classroom and be like when the
revolution comes they're gonna kill him
first you know I'm not joking this is
[Laughter]
childlike in its simplicity and you know
I think a lot of world religions are
like that I think Catholicism
Catholicism is probably a religion only
children can appreciate maybe after age
10 the Catholicism becomes impossible to
appreciate you know but you know
veganism is simple enough for children
to understand and in this case that's
not a terrible evil regretable thing
it's it's simple enough for children to
understand and then it's true it's
complex enough that a bunch of us
middle-aged people can debate for hours
and hours how to how to implement a